---
layout: page
title: "Apple Pie v0.9"
date: 2016-06-01 21:23:29 +1100
categories:
---
Today, Sunday, was Apple Pie day.

I have also become my own worst social-media nightmare.

<div class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-version="7"
style="background: #fff; border-radius: 3px; border: 0; box-shadow: 0 0 1px 0 rgba(0 , 0 , 0 , 0.5) , 0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0 , 0 , 0 , 0.15); margin: 1px; max-width: 658px; padding: 0; width: 99.375%;">

<div style="padding: 8px;">

<div style="background: #F8F8F8; line-height: 0; margin-top: 40px; padding: 50.0% 0; text-align: center; width: 100%;">

<div style="background: url(data:image/png; display: block; height: 44px; margin: 0 auto -44px; position: relative; top: -22px; width: 44px;">

</div>

</div>

<div
style="color: #c9c8cd; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 14px; line-height: 17px; margin-bottom: 0; margin-top: 8px; overflow: hidden; padding: 8px 0 7px; text-align: center; text-overflow: ellipsis; white-space: nowrap;">

A photo posted by Vincent Giles
<a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BHGZ3YOgeiq/">@composervince</a> on Jun 25,
2016 at 6:57pm PDT

</div>

</div>

</div>

Apple Pie v. 0.9
================

### Ingredients

-   3 sheets of vegan shortcrust pastry (Pampas, for eg.)
-   about 9-12 medium-sized apples (any kind will do, I used pink lady),
    chopped into rough cubes
-   1/3-1/2 cup vanilla extract (I used my own which was made with
    Austrian pear schnapps and about 5 vanilla beans)
-   1/2 - 1 cup of boiled water
-   5-6 tsp raw/dark sugar
-   2-3 tbsp tapioca starch
-   1 large cinnamon quill (or 2 smaller ones), broken into three
-   1 star anise broken into parts
-   6-9 cloves
-   desiccated coconut
-   sultanas

### Method

1.  Pre-heat oven (non-fanforced) to about 210-220.
2.  Spray deep-ish pie dish with olive oil, lightly, to avoid pastry
    sticking.
3.  Place apples and sultanas into a big saucepan, cover with all
    liquids, spices, and 2-3tsp of sugar. Cover and simmer until apple
    is slightly fuzzy and tastes like it's absorbed the flavour of the
    spices a bit.
4.  While apple is cooking, line pie dish with pastry. 
5.  When apple is cooked, drain the liquid into another, smaller
    saucepan. This liquid will act as a sauce. Separate out the large
    spices like cinnamon if possible.
6.  While apple is cooling, prepare sauce by mixing in, incrementally,
    the remaining sugar (to taste) and the tapioca starch, and whisk
    until desired thickness is achieved. It should be quite thick.
7.  When sauce is ready, transfer apples into pie dish and distribute
    evenly. 
8.  Top with a layer of desiccated coconut.
9.  Add the sauce reasonably evenly across the top of the
    coconut/apple/sultanas. 
10. Cover the pie with last piece of pastry and fold IN the pastry to
    form the crust (see photo).
11. Bake for about 40 minutes until pastry is done.

<div>

<div class="instagram-media" data-instgrm-version="7"
style="background:#FFF; border:0; border-radius:3px; box-shadow:0 0 1px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.5),0 1px 10px 0 rgba(0,0,0,0.15); margin: 1px; max-width:658px; padding:0; width:99.375%; width:-webkit-calc(100%
- 2px); width:calc(100% - 2px);">

<div style="padding:8px;">

<div
style="background:#F8F8F8; line-height:0; margin-top:40px; padding:50.0% 0; text-align:center; width:100%;">

<div
style="background:url(data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAACwAAAAsCAMAAAApWqozAAAABGdBTUEAALGPC/xhBQAAAAFzUkdCAK7OHOkAAAAMUExURczMzPf399fX1+bm5mzY9AMAAADiSURBVDjLvZXbEsMgCES5/P8/t9FuRVCRmU73JWlzosgSIIZURCjo/ad+EQJJB4Hv8BFt+IDpQoCx1wjOSBFhh2XssxEIYn3ulI/6MNReE07UIWJEv8UEOWDS88LY97kqyTliJKKtuYBbruAyVh5wOHiXmpi5we58Ek028czwyuQdLKPG1Bkb4NnM+VeAnfHqn1k4+GPT6uGQcvu2h2OVuIf/gWUFyy8OWEpdyZSa3aVCqpVoVvzZZ2VTnn2wU8qzVjDDetO90GSy9mVLqtgYSy231MxrY6I2gGqjrTY0L8fxCxfCBbhWrsYYAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC); display:block; height:44px; margin:0 auto -44px; position:relative; top:-22px; width:44px;">

</div>

</div>
<a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BHGOE7ng3Lg/">@composervince</a> on Jun 25,
2016 at 5:14pm PDT

</div>

</div>

</div>
